This is my favorite tech demo of
why Tailwind can be really cool.
Head to Results.jsx.
Here, instead of search,
put grid gap-4 grid-cols-2.
Just like that, I have a grid layout.
It took me ten seconds to do, very little
recollection of how grid works and
that kinda stuff.
Let's take it one step further.
Grid gap-4, and then you put grid-cols-1.
And then at the small breakpoint,
so sm stands for
small breakpoint, make it grid-cols-2.
And then at the large breakpoint,
make it grid-cols-3
Now, it's in three.
It's in two.
It's in one.
Pretty compelling, right?
With 15 seconds,
I have a fully responsive grid layout.
One, it's the magic of the CSS grid,
it's just amazing.
If you don't know CSS flex and grid,
definitely take Jen's course
on it on Frontend Masters.
But this is really compelling to me, that
it's very productive to just throw stuff
out like this without having
to think about, all right,
what do I need exactly to do that in grid?
I mean, I could definitely do this in
a grid, it would take me five minutes
as opposed to 15 seconds, cuz I'd
have to go look it up and remember,
okay, this is where all these goes for
grid.
You can define these breakpoints.
So I'm not showing you how to do this,
but in Tailwind you can actually go and
you can define what is small mean, what
is medium mean, what is orange500 mean?
You can define all those various
variables within Tailwind.
But the defaults are really good, so
I tend to not modify them very much.
But that's totally on the table
if you wanna do that.
I just remember having to do this
stuff by hand back in the Golden Days,
just kidding, I'm not that old.
But back in 2010 when I was
writing code like this.
2010 Brian is screaming
at how easy this is.
I remember having to do responsive layouts
in Reddit, so that would have been 2013 or
something like that.
Having to code this stuff with floats and
stuff like that was just an absolute mess,
terrible.
I remember the first time I saw Pinterest,
and my wife was like, hey,
check out this cool app that
you can pin stuff on like that.
I was like,
how are they doing that layout?
I was so upset.
I spent days pulling apart their CSS
to figure out how they're doing it.
And then I found out they were doing
with JavaScript and I was mad.
Anyway, I don't know why that's relevant
to what we're talking about right now,
but it felt like a relevant
confession to have.
This is so easy.
Cool, let's go do some
positioning as well.
I just wanted to show you how to do that.
Head to Pet.jsx.
Link, we'll do relative block here,
relative and block
And then this class name
here where info is,
just put absolute bottom-0, left-0,
bg-gradient, -to-tr,
From-white-to-transparent.
And then pr-2, so
padding right-2, padding top-2.
Okay, and then here, we get this nice
little gradient where it start to
white and then kinda tapers
off here into the top right.
It's positioned absolutely on
the bottom of the picture.
It just kind of gives it
a nice kind of look to it, so
that they're labelled nicely.
So again, hopefully by going through this,
even though you might still
be minorly disgusted of how
long these classNames are,
can you see how fast I'm going with this?
It's just wild,
how productive you can be with these.
And I'm still relatively a Tailwind newbie
when it comes to these kinda things.
People that have worked in Tailwind
a lot get really productive and
get really fast with this kinda stuff,
so, Okay,
We did not do Details,jsx, so
if you click on one of these,
it still looks weird and gross.
So my invitation for you after this
section is to go do details on your own.
You can either make it look like it did
before or you can make it your own, that's
definitely a playground for you to go and
try and expand your Tailwind skills.
I've now cut a checkpoint here,
so you can go to,
let me just show you,
down here on Tailwind.
At the bottom, if you click here,
this will take you to the complete
project up until now.
It's basically everything
that we just did together.